# US Coronavirus Cases 2020

##### This project explores the distribution of covid-19 cases in the lower 48 US states from the year 2020. The [first map](https://sarahg9.github.io/CoronavirusCases2020/map1) is a choropleth map depicting the covid-19 cases per thousand people by each county in the US. Users can hover over individual counites to see the covid rates. The rates are rounded so there is not “half” a case of covid. The [second map](https://sarahg9.github.io/CoronavirusCases2020/map2) visualizes the total number of covid cases in each county as a proportional symbol map. Users can click on the points for each county and see the number of covid cases. The maps function as visualizations of covid case data and these maps can be used to see trends in counties and regions and similar maps could be used to inform policy and public health decisions. 

##### As noted on each map, data was sourced from The New York Times while the population data for the rate calculations was from the US Census Bureau. Any shapefiles were converted to geojson through QGIS. Mapshaper was used to simplify the polygons representing each county. QGIS and the histogram feature was also used to visualize the distribution of cases and inform the decision on the "bins" for the proportional symbols.  The maps used the Albers projection and were adjusted for between the 25th and 50th parallels. Much of the base code was sourced from MapBox and the Lab 4 assignment for GEOG 495. When making the maps, I noticed that the zoom and location of certain elements changed if I viewed the map on my monitor or laptop screen. I changed the zoom to be more appropriate for my lapstop screen and apologize if when the map is viewed on bigger screen if it appears more zoomed out. 